So this has been a wild ride for you, huh? Yeah.
It's been a long road, you know,
nobody could have imagined basically from, uh,
looking back from my life that, uh, we're going to get here, you know, to the,
I have to talk with, uh, great people around the war,
you know, such as you and, uh, be the biggest port podcast ever.
You know, and to be about,
to fight for the UFC heavyweight championship of the world to suck on time.
For the second time.
Yeah. The redemption, the redemption. Well,
what was the first time like for you? What was,
was the feeling of the first fight like for you?
Oh, um, I had two different feelings, uh,
from that fight first. Uh, obviously I was very, um,
upset and disappointed that I didn't win the fight. And,
you know, I, as everyone was fighting for the title,
you want to get out there as a victorious. But, uh,
to be honest, I always look in that fight. And since, uh,
defy day, just after the fight, I look at it and I'm like, this is good.
Like, um,
I learned just to mush in that fight because
I I'm, even though I was in the level of fighting for the, uh,
war title, you know, but I still have some,
some missing part in my game. And in my experience,
I remember I was asking my question in myself, like, okay,
how did it look like to go into three rounds? Basically,
I'm going to a potential five rounds that I never been in three rounds.
How did it look like how is it to prepare for this kind of fight? And,
uh, I had this fight like six week, six weeks, um, earlier.
So I was having a lot of question then after that fight that
night, I'm like, okay, I get it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So a very big learning experience, right?
Because you were smashing everybody, everybody, you were knocking everybody out.
So you had these very quick fights.
Very quick, very pig rice. And, uh,
didn't spend enough time in the octagon to like have those experience.
Even though I was almost like, uh,
he was almost four years, three years and half things.
I'd be four years that I'd been doing the sport, but, uh,
didn't spend enough time in the octagon to have that experience. I think, uh,
in one night I have a, uh, it,
I cover more than what I been spending in the octagon from the rest of my
career. Now.
It's, um,
it's gotta be a difficult thing to figure out how to pace yourself for a five
round fight when you've only been knocking people out quickly before that. Yeah.
Uh, also, you know, some people, uh, get your,
why they're being proficient when, where they been having, uh, at least,
uh, lives for a long time, maybe wrestling,
maybe doing some different sport at school or at college. But,
uh, I never get into that stuff. You know,
growing up our just like finding my way to survive. Then I ended up,
uh, finding myself in some way that, uh,
I never been there. You know? So the experience was just crazy.
How old were you when you had your first training,
your first martial arts training?
That was in, uh, summer, October, 2013. That was my first.
Eight years ago.
Yeah. And two years after that I was fighting my first fight in the UFC.
And I remember basically, like at first, when I went into Marshall,
he was just for fun to a curiosity. I'm like, oh, he's fun. Oh, he's good.
I like those, uh, kick, you know.
But.
I didn't like seeing myself being a, um,
um, USC fighter and people was like, oh, if you put yourself into this,
you can become a UFC fighter and a UFC champion.
You can have a UFC belt wrapped around your waist. I'm like, whatever,
you know, care about it until I have the USA contract,
like two years after that, I'm like, okay,
this may be the opportunity that I have been looking for.
So it's time to capitalize and showcase my
talent, unsure the war and shook the world.
How many fights did you have before you fought in the UFC? Six fights.
Six fights. And did you have them on front?
A few fights in France? Uh, just before in France, uh,
at forefront, a fight in France and you know, in France,
the crown and pound is not allowed when he goes, that was back, uh,
back then, because MME was the illegal. So when he goes on the ground,
he's just turned into gripe, grappling game game. Really? Yeah.
So I had four fights in France,
one in Switzerland and one in Bahrain, Bahrain, Barbie.
So when did they find out about you? How do you FC find about you? Um.
That was, um, that was my coach Phantom by the time was working with, uh,
a manager named, uh, Tiago, uh, a Brazilian guy.
So they kind of like push, uh, uh,
Tiago has a connection with the, I mean he was a manager.
So for now was all the time sending him a text message
and, um, uh, videos that you were, uh,
forward to the UFC on to, and they'll say like, yes, but, uh,
he hasn't fight nobody tough yet. Yeah. He hasn't get tested, uh,
a real test yet until, uh, I fought this guy in, Bahrein named,
uh, William by guilty and, uh, knock him out in the second round.
Then I get my UFC contract right after that.
What was it like the first fight in UFC? Was it different? Whoa.
Uh, that was a crazy experience. You know, I didn't,
I didn't even know the rules back then.
I remember I was in Orlando and I'm like, man,
this is the time like I'm going to fight, uh,
to be seen in the whole world. Um, so this is my,
the time to take my opportunity to showcase my talent, to prove that, uh,
I can do something then I'm like, okay, so what is this, uh,
what it is about MME? What, how MMA works, what is the rules,
how it goes, and I couldn't get it, like didn't know the rules, but.
Because you got used to no ground fighting punching on the ground,
cause there's no ground and found in France. Yeah.
Oh, I was just doing it for two years.
And remember at first it was just for fun. Right.
So didn't really was there to become a professional fighter, you know?
Uh, or I care about, uh, at the time was boxing then, uh,
I found out, I found myself there in two years then I'm like, okay,
what is the rules again? Uh, how it works. Okay. Uh,
if you try to take me down, I cannot do this.
Like trying to figure all those out. It was very stressful. And I'm like,
guess what? At the end of the day is just fine. I mean, uh,
I don't know if this guy's doing some Khufu, he's just fighting.
We're gonna figure it out. You know, it's just men between men, you know? Right.
Yeah. We're going to figure it out. I mean, you know, I'm a tough guy, you know,
so, uh, I can handle it. Why.
Did you transition to MMA and not, not go into boxing?
It's not like your transition and I didn't have a choice. You know,
I was proud I was doing MMA, uh, because when I get in,
when I went in France, I was, uh, uh, I didn't have a,
uh, paper, so I was illegal, so I couldn't work. And, uh,
I wanted so bad to do a sport and I
was doing boxing in an MMA,
but the MMA was the one that was more open and giving me opportunity, like,
uh, having a UFC contract as a MMA fighter was a big deal. And, uh,
didn't have much, you know, like books in war is kind of like a,
a very complicated business. You have to know somebody,
they have to like line you up. It's very complicated.
But MMA was just easy, you know, people out then I'm like, who's that guy,
we want that guy. It was pretty, pretty easy. Mme.
Wise and.
Doxing. You have to be connected to the right motor.
Yeah. And that takes time. Yeah. And, uh, basically, uh,
regarding my situation back then, uh, I had a lot of oats,
you know, uh, coming from nowhere. Nobody knows me with my accent.
And you know, uh, in French when you have accent is not a good thing. It's.
Not, what's it like over.
There, it's frustrating because the way that they look at you,
when you speak with your accent, you know, you don't feel comfortable.
You can like, let, let yourself express yourself.
You just feel bad about yourself. You know? Uh, just seeing people react.
Some people reactions sometime, and, um,
you didn't have a resident card. You was like, uh, uh,
migrant. So it was kind of together was a tough situation to deal with, uh,
basically in the books in business, because they're gonna go see this promoter,
talk about you, but who is that guy where it is come from?
You know, it's hard to have created from someone.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.